The sources tab, this is one that I
feel like it's kind of underrated.
It's basically a full IDE and so
over this course we'll learn how to do.
We'll learn how to use the courses tab for
step through debugging,
which is really cool.
So instead of just console logging, we'll
be able to put a break point, we'll be
able to pause the whole execution stack at
that break point and kind of move around.
We can check the call stack, like how we
got there, what functions got called.
We can keep an eye on certain variables,
like watch a variable and
see how it changes over time.
But we can also use this really
cool thing called work spaces,
where we can drag our project into the dev
tools, and after we set it up correctly,
everything that we edit will
actually persist to disk.
So normally if you're in the elements tab,
and you're messing with the CSS,
I don't know who's
gotten into this before.
This happens me all the time, so
I'll be like working on design
I'll go into my elements tab and
I'll get it perfect right.
It's like the CSS look at the site
looks like exactly perfect, but
I've been working for like an hour.
When I'm ready to ship it, I'm like,
I don't even remember what
all I changed at this point.
Like I added so many classes and
I added so many selectors and styles like,
it's really difficult to
figure out what you change.
And so workspaces can be really cool cuz
you still get that instant feedback of
working in the sources or elements tab.
But you can actually hit like Ctrl S or
command S and it'll save it to disk, so
we have a whole exercise on that for
later.
You got the application tab, I usually
refer to this one is just storage as like
a way of thinking about it.
So this is where you'll come
probably primarily to look at all
the different ways we have of like
caching and serving things locally.
So that's like local storage,
session data, cookies, index db,
all sorts of stuff like that.
It's also the place that you come if
you have a progressive web app with
a ServiceWorker.
So if you have a service worker,
it also has a service worker tab,
where you can see is there
a worker is it being registered,
what it's doing all sorts
of stuff like that.
It's also maybe most commonly
used to come into the storage and
click clear all site data.
That's probably what I use it for
the most right so when you're like,
you know you're in a weird state and
you cache something or
you're messing with sessions or
cookies and it's everything's bad.
You just come in here click clear
site data, refresh the page and
get a nice clean start.
We've got the memory tab, so this one is
very specific to your memory consumption.
But it's really cool, so
you can take a heap snapshot,
which is like show how memory is
currently being used in my app.
You can do a timeline so you can like
the profile or the performance page,
you can record over time,
and you can do stuff and
you can see what you're doing
that's using memory or not.
And then there's this new tool which is
like probably one of the things I'm most
excited about,
which is you can allocation sample.
And that'll help you now that you
have a memory leak hypothetically,
it'll help you figure out what JavaScript
code you're using that's actually causing
that memory leak.
Because in the past it's been really
easy to find out that you have one and
it's been much more difficult
to figure out why you have one.